Frankenstein and the Dangers of Science

Mary Shelley's Frankenstein is a story about a scientist who goes too far in his pursuit of knowledge and ends up causing a lot of suffering because he does not think about the consequences of what he is doing. Victor Frankenstein is so obsessed with creating life that he does not stop to consider what will happen afterward, and this lack of responsibility is what causes the tragedy of the novel.

One example of this is when Victor first succeeds in bringing the creature to life. He has spent years working toward this goal, but as soon as it actually happens he is horrified and runs away. This shows that Victor was more interested in the achievement of creating life than in actually being ready to take care of what he created. He abandons the creature immediately, which starts the chain of events that leads to everyone's deaths later in the book.

The creature then has a really hard life because nobody will accept him. He tries to be kind to people, like when he helps the family in the cottage without them knowing, but they are scared of him because of how he looks and they attack him anyway. This is not really fair to the creature since he did not choose to look the way he does or to be abandoned by his creator. Because of this treatment he becomes angry and starts to want revenge on Victor, which is when he starts killing people that Victor cares about like William and Clerval.

Some people might say that the creature is just evil and that is why he kills people, but I do not think that is the right way to look at it. The novel shows the creature learning language and having feelings just like anyone else, so it seems like Shelley wants us to see that he became violent because of how he was treated and not because he was born bad.

In conclusion, Frankenstein shows that science without responsibility can lead to disaster. Victor's mistake was not that he created the creature, but that he did not take care of him afterward, and that is really the main point of the whole book.
